README.md, before:

# Faraday Multipart

[![ci](https://github.com/lostisland/faraday-multipart/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lostisland/faraday-multipart/actions/workflows/ci.yaml)
[![Gem](https://img.shields.io/gem/v/faraday-multipart.svg?style=flat-square)](https://rubygems.org/gems/faraday-multipart)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/lostisland/faraday-multipart.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE.md)

The `Multipart` middleware converts a `Faraday::Request#body` Hash of key/value pairs into a multipart form request, but
only under these conditions:

* The request's Content-Type is "multipart/form-data"
* Content-Type is unspecified, AND one of the values in the Body responds to
  `#content_type`.

Faraday contains a couple helper classes for multipart values:

* `Faraday::Multipart::FilePart` wraps binary file data with a Content-Type. The file data can be specified with a String path to a
  local file, or an IO object.
* `Faraday::Multipart::ParamPart` wraps a String value with a Content-Type, and optionally a Content-ID.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'faraday-multipart'
```

And then execute:

```shell
bundle install
```

Or install it yourself as:

```shell
gem install faraday-multipart
```

## Usage

First of all, you'll need to add the multipart middleware to your Faraday connection:

```ruby
require 'faraday'
require 'faraday/multipart'

conn = Faraday.new(...) do |f|
  f.request :multipart, **options
  # ...
end
```


Payload can be a mix of POST data and multipart values.

```ruby
# regular POST form value
payload = { string: 'value' }

# filename for this value is File.basename(__FILE__)
payload[:file] = Faraday::Multipart::FilePart.new(__FILE__, 'text/x-ruby')

# specify filename because IO object doesn't know it
payload[:file_with_name] = Faraday::Multipart::FilePart.new(
  File.open(__FILE__),
  'text/x-ruby',
  File.basename(__FILE__)
)

# Sets a custom Content-Disposition:
# nil filename still defaults to File.basename(__FILE__)
payload[:file_with_header] = Faraday::Multipart::FilePart.new(
  __FILE__,
  'text/x-ruby',
  nil,
  'Content-Disposition' => 'form-data; foo=1'
)

# Upload raw json with content type
payload[:raw_data] = Faraday::Multipart::ParamPart.new(
  { a: 1 }.to_json,
  'application/json'
)

# optionally sets Content-ID too
payload[:raw_with_id] = Faraday::Multipart::ParamPart.new(
  { a: 1 }.to_json,
  'application/json',
  'foo-123'
)

conn.post('/', payload)
```

### Sending an array of documents

Sometimes, the server you're calling will expect an array of documents or other values for the same key.
The `multipart` middleware will automatically handle this scenario for you:

```ruby
payload = {
  files: [
    Faraday::Multipart::FilePart.new(__FILE__, 'text/x-ruby'),
    Faraday::Multipart::FilePart.new(__FILE__, 'text/x-pdf')
  ],
  url: [
    'http://mydomain.com/callback1',
    'http://mydomain.com/callback2'
  ]
}

conn.post(url, payload)
#=> POST url[]=http://mydomain.com/callback1&url[]=http://mydomain.com/callback2
#=>   and includes both files in the request under the `files[]` name
```

However, by default these will be sent with `files[]` key and the URLs with `url[]`, similarly to arrays in URL parameters.
Some servers (e.g. Mailgun) expect each document to have the same parameter key instead.
You can instruct the `multipart` middleware to do so by providing the `flat_encode` option:

```ruby
require 'faraday'
require 'faraday/multipart'

conn = Faraday.new(...) do |f|
  f.request :multipart, flat_encode: true
  # ...
end

payload = ... # see example above

conn.post(url, payload)
#=> POST url=http://mydomain.com/callback1&url=http://mydomain.com/callback2
#=>   and includes both files in the request under the `files` name
```

This works for both `UploadIO` and normal parameters alike.

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies.

Then, run `bin/test` to run the tests.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `rake build`.

### Releasing a new version

To release a new version, make a commit with a message such as "Bumped to 0.0.2", and change the _Unreleased_ heading in `CHANGELOG.md` to a heading like "0.0.2 (2022-01-01)", and then use GitHub Releases to author a release. A GitHub Actions workflow then publishes a new gem to [RubyGems.org](https://rubygems.org/gems/faraday-multipart).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on [GitHub](https://github.com/lostisland/faraday-multipart).

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Add The Ability To Specify A Different MIME Type
There are many different mime types for multipart
requests and this change provides the option to
specify a different one.

If a multipart mime type is not specified the
middleware will default to multipart/form-data.

This change also changes the structure of the
middleware a bit. It changes the parent from
UrlEncoded to inherit from Middleware directly
instead. This is because we were overriding most
of the UrlEncoded methods anyway so bringing last
remaining methods over and removing that link in
the dependency chain seemed to make sense.

Another structural code change was to move the
methods that didn't need to be public under the
private keyword. The intent of this was to help
future developers know what they can change
without worrying breaking any external
dependencies.

README.md, after:

# Faraday Multipart

[![ci](https://github.com/lostisland/faraday-multipart/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lostisland/faraday-multipart/actions/workflows/ci.yaml)
[![Gem](https://img.shields.io/gem/v/faraday-multipart.svg?style=flat-square)](https://rubygems.org/gems/faraday-multipart)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/lostisland/faraday-multipart.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE.md)

The `Multipart` middleware converts a `Faraday::Request#body` Hash of key/value pairs into a multipart form request, but
only under these conditions:

* The request's Content-Type is "multipart/form-data"
* Content-Type is unspecified, AND one of the values in the Body responds to
  `#content_type`.

Faraday contains a couple helper classes for multipart values:

* `Faraday::Multipart::FilePart` wraps binary file data with a Content-Type. The file data can be specified with a String path to a
  local file, or an IO object.
* `Faraday::Multipart::ParamPart` wraps a String value with a Content-Type, and optionally a Content-ID.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'faraday-multipart'
```

And then execute:

```shell
bundle install
```

Or install it yourself as:

```shell
gem install faraday-multipart
```

## Usage

First of all, you'll need to add the multipart middleware to your Faraday connection:

```ruby
require 'faraday'
require 'faraday/multipart'

conn = Faraday.new(...) do |f|
  f.request :multipart, **options
  # ...
end
```

If you need to [specify a different content type for the multipart
request](https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml#multipart),
you can do so by providing the `content_type` option but it must start with
`multipart/`
otherwise it will default to `multipart/form-data`:

```ruby
conn = Faraday.new(...) do |f|
  f.request :multipart, content_type: 'multipart/mixed'
  # ...
end
```

Payload can be a mix of POST data and multipart values.

```ruby
# regular POST form value
payload = { string: 'value' }

# filename for this value is File.basename(__FILE__)
payload[:file] = Faraday::Multipart::FilePart.new(__FILE__, 'text/x-ruby')

# specify filename because IO object doesn't know it
payload[:file_with_name] = Faraday::Multipart::FilePart.new(
  File.open(__FILE__),
  'text/x-ruby',
  File.basename(__FILE__)
)

# Sets a custom Content-Disposition:
# nil filename still defaults to File.basename(__FILE__)
payload[:file_with_header] = Faraday::Multipart::FilePart.new(
  __FILE__,
  'text/x-ruby',
  nil,
  'Content-Disposition' => 'form-data; foo=1'
)

# Upload raw json with content type
payload[:raw_data] = Faraday::Multipart::ParamPart.new(
  { a: 1 }.to_json,
  'application/json'
)

# optionally sets Content-ID too
payload[:raw_with_id] = Faraday::Multipart::ParamPart.new(
  { a: 1 }.to_json,
  'application/json',
  'foo-123'
)

conn.post('/', payload)
```

### Sending an array of documents

Sometimes, the server you're calling will expect an array of documents or other values for the same key.
The `multipart` middleware will automatically handle this scenario for you:

```ruby
payload = {
  files: [
    Faraday::Multipart::FilePart.new(__FILE__, 'text/x-ruby'),
    Faraday::Multipart::FilePart.new(__FILE__, 'text/x-pdf')
  ],
  url: [
    'http://mydomain.com/callback1',
    'http://mydomain.com/callback2'
  ]
}

conn.post(url, payload)
#=> POST url[]=http://mydomain.com/callback1&url[]=http://mydomain.com/callback2
#=>   and includes both files in the request under the `files[]` name
```

However, by default these will be sent with `files[]` key and the URLs with `url[]`, similarly to arrays in URL parameters.
Some servers (e.g. Mailgun) expect each document to have the same parameter key instead.
You can instruct the `multipart` middleware to do so by providing the `flat_encode` option:

```ruby
require 'faraday'
require 'faraday/multipart'

conn = Faraday.new(...) do |f|
  f.request :multipart, flat_encode: true
  # ...
end

payload = ... # see example above

conn.post(url, payload)
#=> POST url=http://mydomain.com/callback1&url=http://mydomain.com/callback2
#=>   and includes both files in the request under the `files` name
```

This works for both `UploadIO` and normal parameters alike.

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies.

Then, run `bin/test` to run the tests.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `rake build`.

### Releasing a new version

To release a new version, make a commit with a message such as "Bumped to 0.0.2", and change the _Unreleased_ heading in `CHANGELOG.md` to a heading like "0.0.2 (2022-01-01)", and then use GitHub Releases to author a release. A GitHub Actions workflow then publishes a new gem to [RubyGems.org](https://rubygems.org/gems/faraday-multipart).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on [GitHub](https://github.com/lostisland/faraday-multipart).

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
